Greetings, and welcome to JW Broadcasting®.
Here are a few highlights
from this month’s program.
Samuele was torn
between his career and the truth.
How did he resolve this conflict,
and what steps did he take
to reach his spiritual goals?
Perhaps you’ve been impatient with someone
because they’re not handling
a situation the way you would.
In a new dramatization,
Neeta and Jade
learn how to cultivate patience.
In this episode of Our History in Motion,
we’ll see how conventions
strengthen the unity
and love among Jehovah’s people.
This is JW Broadcasting for November 2022!
In our broadcast for this month,
we’re going to discuss
the quality of patience.
Think of how many situations we encounter
that require patience:
waiting in rush-hour traffic,
dealing with a difficult coworker,
raising a child,
overcoming marital problems,
coping with the illness of a loved one,
or maybe coping with an illness of our own.
Clearly, all of us face situations
that require us to display
a measure of patience each day.
If we don’t have patience,
we can become frustrated,
tired, and discouraged.
But no matter what our circumstances are,
all of us can develop this quality.
How do we know?
Because according to Galatians 5:22,
patience is an aspect
of the fruitage of God’s spirit,
and with its help,
we can make this quality
an integral part of our personality.
For this to happen,
let’s now answer two important questions.
First, How can being patient
help us to express our love for Jehovah?
And second, How can being patient improve
our relationship with others?
Let’s start with our first question:
How can being patient
help us to express our love for Jehovah?
Let’s consider what is stated
in 1 Corinthians chapter 13.
This chapter gives us a description
of how love manifests itself.
Please follow along as I read verse 4:
“Love is patient and kind.
“Love is not jealous.
It does not brag, does not get puffed up.”
Of all the many qualities
that stem from love,
did you note which one is listed first?
Patience.
It is an integral aspect of love.
We need both love and patience
in order to be successful
and ensure we’re on the right course,
which includes pleasing Jehovah.
If we think of situations
where a lack of patience was a factor,
we can usually identify
where a lack of love was evident.
Take, for example,
God’s chosen people, the nation of Israel.
In Psalm 106,
written many years
after Israel’s deliverance from Egypt,
the psalmist indicates that they continued
acting with a similar disposition.
Despite that,
Jehovah extended patience
to them for many years.
Please follow along as I read Psalm 106:7, 8:
“Our forefathers in Egypt
“did not appreciate your wonderful works.
“They did not remember
your abundant loyal love,
“but they rebelled at the sea,
by the Red Sea.
“But he saved them for the sake of his name,
to make his mightiness known.”
And what was the result?
Let’s read verse 13:
“But they quickly forgot what he did;
they did not wait for his counsel.”
How sad!
The people “did not wait.”
They were not patient.
And that highlights
that they did not appreciate
Jehovah’s patience and loyal love.
Love for God should have caused them
to think about the consequences
of their actions.
They should have remembered
how Jehovah cared and provided for them.
That should have moved them to be patient
and wait on Jehovah’s direction.
But time and again,
their actions showed that they really didn’t
love Jehovah as they should have.
And it cost them.
They eventually tested
Jehovah’s patience to the limit
and, as a nation, lost his favor.
What can you and I learn from their example?
Never would we want
to become independent of Jehovah,
trusting in our own thinking
and not patiently waiting
for Jehovah’s counsel
to direct the decisions we make.
Think about how well we’ve been guided
recently regarding the pandemic,
natural disasters,
and the organizing of our ministry.
Even if we didn’t fully understand
or even fully agree with all the decisions,
our love for God helped us to take the time
to think about Jehovah’s care for us
and trust him.
By doing so, we learn that if we’re patient
and submit to Jehovah’s direction,
we won’t go off course
and we’ll benefit ourselves and others.
And in doing so,
we ultimately express our love for Jehovah.
Let’s now answer the second question:
How can being patient
improve our relationship with others?
If we go back to 1 Corinthians 13:4,
the study note states:
“Patience is a quality that Jehovah and Jesus
“constantly show
in their dealings with humans.
“As imitators of Jesus and Jehovah,
Christians are to show patience to others.”
So if Jehovah and Jesus are patient with us,
it would follow that we imitate
their example and be patient with others.
Let’s start
with the greatest example, Jehovah.
Think about the patience he’s shown
in waiting to bring an end to this system.
Jehovah has a fixed day and hour
when that will take place,
and he’s patiently waiting
until that arrives.
He’s bound himself to his own timetable.
Now rest assured,
Jehovah is well aware
of how we feel as his servants.
He knows that we wish the end of this system
to come as soon as possible
and that we long
to see the fulfillment of all his promises.
And he longs to fulfill them.
But he will not become impatient
and act before his appointed time.
Why should we appreciate
Jehovah’s patience in that regard?
Please follow along as I read 2 Peter 3:15:
“Furthermore, consider the patience
“of our Lord as salvation,
“just as our beloved brother Paul
also wrote you
according to the wisdom given him.”
Isn’t that a powerful point?
Jehovah’s patience
is the means for our salvation.
Think about the number of people
who are learning the truth every year.
Even during the pandemic,
when we weren’t able to engage
in our typical house-to-house witnessing,
tens of thousands of individuals
still got baptized worldwide.
Perhaps some of those
included your Bible students,
family members, close friends,
or maybe even you yourself.
And think about this:
If Jehovah had impatiently
brought the end of this system
5, 10, or 20 years ago,
would you have learned the truth?
So we appreciate that Jehovah
is still patiently waiting
for his day to arrive
and has allowed
so many to attain to repentance
and develop a relationship with him.
How should this affect
our relationship with others?
Perhaps it can help us to be more patient
with a progressive Bible student
who still may be struggling with a problem.
Or maybe it’s still difficult
for some of our relatives to see us
as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses
and to adjust to our beliefs and lifestyle.
But in imitation of Jehovah’s patience,
we won’t give up on them.
And, of course, reflecting
on Jehovah’s patience should move us
to continue
to have a full share in the ministry,
earnestly looking for those who
are “rightly disposed for everlasting life”
and helping them
to love Jehovah and serve him.
Then they too can benefit
from Jehovah’s patience,
just as we have.
We can also learn from the example of Jesus.
He demonstrated tremendous patience
when his disciples
were arguing among themselves
as to who was the greatest.
This apparently happened
on a number of occasions.
And no doubt,
it saddened Jesus to hear this.
But Jesus was patient with them.
He showed empathy for them.
He knew how much
the culture and the environment
in which they had been raised
affected their thinking and attitude.
That knowledge caused him to react kindly.
Note one beautiful example.
Please read with me Mark chapter 9
—Mark 9:33, 35:
“And they came into Capernaum.
“Now when he was inside the house,
“he put the question to them:
‘What were you arguing about on the road?’”
Well, we know the answer.
They had been arguing
about who among them was the greater.
Look at verse 35:
“So he sat down
and called the Twelve and said to them:
“‘If anyone wants to be first,
he must be last of all and minister of all.’”
Did you note what Jesus did?
He patiently waited for the right time
to correct them kindly.
He didn’t make a scene on the road.
Verse 33,
he waited until “he was inside the house,”
verse 35, ‘sitting down.’
He calmed the situation.
He didn’t push them.
Instead, he led them patiently by instruction
and by example.
What a great example
in avoiding becoming provoked
and, instead of acting immediately,
waiting for the right time
to address matters,
even when our patience is tested!
What else can we take away
from Jesus’ example of patience?
If you’re a parent,
can you imitate the way
that Jesus dealt with his apostles?
It may be frustrating if your children
don’t respond immediately to your counsel
or if they’re slow
in correcting their shortcomings.
Or perhaps you’re an elder
and someone you’re trying to help may be slow
in responding to Bible-based counsel.
But remember Jesus’ example.
He never gave up on his apostles.
He kept looking for the good,
expressing confidence in them,
and he patiently repeated lessons
that they needed
so that they could draw closer to Jehovah.
If we do the same, not giving up,
our patience may eventually
be rewarded as well.
So to review:
How can being patient help us
to express our love for Jehovah?
It stops us from running ahead of Jehovah,
demonstrating our loyal love for him.
Waiting patiently
for Jehovah’s direction and guidance
ensures that our course is pleasing to him.
And second, How can being patient
improve our relationship with others?
It helps us to avoid acting rashly
and to look for the good in others
and express confidence in them.
Hopefully, this discussion
will help us appreciate
the benefit of displaying
patience in our lives.
With the increasing pressures
of these last days,
we’ll need to display patience
more than ever before!
Imitating the patience of Jehovah and Jesus
will help us keep the right attitude.
We won’t become
overly discouraged or overwhelmed
by the present wickedness in this system
or even be impatient about when it will end.
Instead, we’ll stay on the right course:
keeping busy, working to develop
a closer relationship with Jehovah,
and keeping active in our ministry,
helping others to learn about Jehovah
and benefit from his patience.
May all of us keep working
to make the quality of patience
a dominant part of our personality.
As we do,
we will demonstrate how much we value
and appreciate this wonderful quality
and bring all praise and honor to Jehovah!
To give Jehovah their best,
some of our brothers
give up lucrative and prestigious careers.
Making this decision
may take time and patience
as we’ll see in our first video.
I played in the Series A,
which is the top league in Italy.
I was on the National Youth Team,
and I went all the way up
to the Men’s National Team.
Just the fact that you are good
at your job is gratifying,
and then there is also the financial aspect.
My mom and dad were Jehovah’s Witnesses,
and so was my older brother.
At a certain point,
I felt conflicted,
especially when I decided
to draw closer to the truth.
It was no longer a “family” thing.
In time, something started to develop in me
—a fire, a small fire.
Gradually,
I came to the point of dedication to Jehovah,
although I still played.
But maybe
—not maybe, definitely—
I wasn’t giving Jehovah my best, my energy.
I was fitting my spiritual life
around my work life
and not the other way around.
I excused myself, saying:
“I’m just working.
“It’s a profession.
“Yes, it’s time-consuming,
but it’s of short duration
because athletes retire earlier.”
The closer I drew to Jehovah,
the stronger my inner conflicts became.
The circuit overseer who served
the area I was associated with helped me.
I had known him since I was a child.
When we met again,
the first thing he asked me was,
“Are you happy with what you are doing?”
It seems like a simple question, right?
But this question went deeper.
I’m very grateful to him and his wife
for all the time they devoted to me.
They were very busy,
but even on their day off or in the evenings
after long days of activity,
they spent time with me.
In time, I moved to different cities
and changed to various teams.
So he entrusted me, so to speak,
to two other families.
They poured themselves out for me,
sacrificing their time,
without ever making me feel bad
for what I did.
With regard to decisions about basketball,
they never told me what to do.
I had to reach that decision on my own,
whether I should continue playing or not.
It was their way of life that corrected me,
so to speak.
Their example
—their lifestyle, the priorities they set,
and the joy they had in doing
what they did—helped me.
It was more their example
than their words.
It helped me understand
what I really wanted from my life.
I started in 1995
and continued until April 2008
when I played my last match.
I, let’s say,
made a cut and quit playing basketball.
I’m glad I made it.
Sometimes I say to myself:
‘If only you’d done it earlier!
If only you’d had the courage earlier!’
I had the privilege
of serving as a regular pioneer
for two and a half years.
I was asked
if I would like to apply for Bethel service.
And to my surprise,
I was invited to the Italy branch
and served there for five years.
A few months after leaving Bethel,
I had the privilege of attending
the School for Kingdom Evangelizers.
It was wonderful!
This sport
—basketball—
it’s great, it’s thrilling, it’s exciting,
but it’s not the source of true happiness.
It’s true that the world
can give you a measure of satisfaction,
but everything comes at a cost.
But it took me
a long time to understand this.
Knowing that I am giving Jehovah my best
has made me happy.
Yes, there is a team,
a large one, and we all play for Jehovah.
And its goal is beautiful, it’s exciting,
and its success is sure.
Samuele said he wished
he had given up basketball earlier
to pursue spiritual goals.
From that we learn that decisions
to spend time on personal interests
take away from time
we should give to Jehovah.
The sooner we appreciate Jehovah’s patience,
the sooner we enjoy the blessings
which make us truly rich.
We are happy that Jehovah
exercised patience with Brother Podestà
and helped him to regain his balance.
If you’re facing a career decision,
be assured that when we focus first
on serving Jehovah
and teaching others his Word,
we’re happier!
Samuele was influenced by the patience
and good example of loving brothers.
When we see how others
are handling situations,
we may not be as patient as we’d like to be.
That’s what happens to Neeta and Jade
in the following dramatization.
How do they learn to be more patient
with each other?
You’re late!
Hmm?
I said, “You’re late.”
Sorry.
You work here now?
Yeah, just a—
Just a few weeks.
You look great.
Um, what can I get you?
I tried texting, you know,
after you ended it.
Chai latte, that was your favorite.
Jade, you were my favorite.
Ollie, you know why I had to . . .
I know.
But I want to study your religion.
That’s why I texted.
Well, I got a new phone, and I didn’t—
I didn’t see them.
OK, but how about I leave you my number,
and we can meet up.
Come on.
And that’s when you walked away.
Tell me you walked away.
He gave me his number.
What?
No.
Jade!
He said he wants to study.
Yeah, he wants to study you.
We can’t read hearts.
I think I can read yours.
He was sweet,
and if he wants to know the truth . . .
I—
I can’t even believe this.
What does it say?
It says low battery.
No, not that,
this—2 Corinthians 6:14.
“Do not become unevenly yoked
with unbelievers.”
There was no yoking.
I haven’t yoked.
But this opens the door to the yoke.
I’m not stupid!
You act like I don’t know this.
No.
You act like you don’t know this.
That’s a lot of backstory.
You asked what happened.
I thought you’d like, you know,
sum it up in a word or something.
Anyway, now you know.
So are you going to call him then?
I don’t think so.
Why not?
Because I don’t think its religion
that he’s interested in.
I could’ve told you that.
I made you a cup.
Thanks.
You’re amazing.
Listen.
I’m sorry.
I know I came on strong.
No, you were right.
But I could have been more patient.
I reacted too quickly.
I know you know
what the right thing to do is.
I should have given you
more time to talk it out.
I called Brother Davies
and gave him the background
and said, “If he’s really interested,
he’ll have a study.”
Then I deleted Ollie’s number.
I knew it.
I knew you’d do the right thing.
Well, sometimes.
But I should’ve been more patient,
and I should have heard you out.
It’s just
not what I wanted to hear
in the moment.
So we’re good?
Always.
Now, no more apologizing
until I finish this coffee;
it’s too painful.
It’s so nice.
Haven’t we enjoyed the journey
of Neeta and Jade
from when they first appeared
in our convention videos
up to these latest episodes?
They’ve encountered situations
we can all relate to:
Jade progressing from Bible student
to Bible teacher,
learning to reject falsehoods
about Jehovah’s people,
and refining qualities like patience.
Neeta has grown as a disciple-maker
and as a caring spiritual sister.
The encouraging lesson for us:
Keep growing as a spiritual person.
Putting on “the new personality” isn’t easy.
It can seem insurmountable
for those in the grip of an addiction.
We’ll see this in our next video.
What helps Takeei break free
from compulsive gambling?
Dad left us when I was around five years old.
Then when I was 15,
we found out Mum had cancer,
and she passed away six months later.
She was only 39.
My two younger brothers
were still in elementary school,
so I woke up early,
did the milk rounds,
worked in a factory during the day,
and went to school at night.
My life was super busy then.
My life became significantly easier
after marriage.
Since my wife did the housework,
all I needed to do was work.
Before I was so busy
that I never really got to have any fun.
One day, a friend took me to a betting shop
for horse racing,
and to my surprise, I got lucky.
I was surprised that you can buy a ticket
and then you get all this money
in your hands.
So that’s how it started.
It gradually became worse, to the point
that I would get off of the night shift
and go straight to the races.
I loved gambling more
than eating and sleeping.
On my way home,
images of my wife and children
would come to my mind,
and I had this nagging feeling
that I really should
be getting my life together.
When I was broke,
I would go to the pawn shops.
I pawned our camera
and even my wife’s jewelry.
My wife started studying the Bible,
and to try and make my wife and children
a little happy,
I also agreed to a study.
Before I started gambling,
I liked growing vegetables.
You know, everything a vegetable needs,
all the instructions to grow,
is in this tiny seed
that is one or two millimeters in size.
I knew that couldn’t just happen by chance.
I was convinced
that there must be a God.
Through my Bible study,
I learned that this God is Jehovah,
and that made me really happy.
‘I found you!’
That’s how I felt.
However, it was really difficult
to quit gambling.
You know, many times I wanted to quit,
and I would pay back my loans
but then take out some more again.
My wife’s relative said to me,
“Only death can cure you.”
So I had this conviction
that the Creator exists,
yet on the other hand,
I was deep into gambling.
I knew Jehovah saw it all,
and I hated myself.
I attended a circuit assembly
for the first time.
‘Put away the old personality,
and put on the new personality.’
As I was reading those words from the Bible,
I felt that was about me.
When I asked myself, ‘Hey, what’s happening
to my life right now?,’
I saw how horrible and ugly
my mindset was.
I felt tears well up.
I knew this was Jehovah talking to me,
and I felt determined
to do something about it.
I couldn’t do it on my own,
so I prayed to Jehovah
from the bottom of my heart, saying:
“I really want to stop, no matter what.
“I want to hate gambling
and not just avoid it.
Please give me this feeling of hate.”
I prayed like this every day.
Since then,
I have felt zero desire to gamble.
There was one time during work
when I passed by a racetrack.
I loved bicycle racing before,
but now I felt this deep revulsion.
I knew
my prayers were answered.
I felt Jehovah’s patience
and so much appreciation
for
how he allowed me in,
knowing who I was.
If I had continued that path,
I’m sure my family would have broken apart.
My relatives are all surprised at me.
I’m sure those trying to stop gambling
have many concerns,
but as long as you have that desire
to pour out those feelings to Jehovah
and jump into his arms,
he’ll take you in.
He won’t leave you.
I really want them to know Jehovah
as that kind of Person.
How encouraging!
If you’re fighting an addiction,
don’t give up!
Pour your heart out to Jehovah
and ask for his help.
Don’t be discouraged if you suffer setbacks.
Jehovah will be patient with you,
as he was with Takeei.
Did you notice
that our brother’s addiction began subtly?
If only he had detected
the early warning signs!
How can we remain alert
and safeguard our heart?
Let’s find out in this Bethel morning worship
with Brother David Splane,
a member of the Governing Body.
Solomon had three horrible half brothers
—Amnon,
Adonijah, and Absalom.
They were a lot older than he was,
but Solomon didn’t try to imitate them.
And he didn’t allow himself to be stumbled
by their bad conduct, as if to say,
‘Well, if that’s the kind of people
they have around here,
I want nothing to do
with Jehovah’s Witnesses.’
No, Solomon followed his own path.
He developed a strong personal relationship
with Jehovah God.
And remember what the Bible says
about Solomon in the beginning?
Jehovah loved him.
Isn’t that nice?
Wouldn’t you love it
if that were said about you?
I would.
Jehovah loved Solomon,
and Jehovah blessed Solomon in many ways.
For example, while Solomon was faithful,
Israel was at peace.
In fact, Solomon said: “Jehovah my God
has given me rest [all around].
“There is no one opposing me
and nothing bad [is] happening.”
So it was only
after Solomon became unfaithful
that resisters were raised up in Israel.
Not only was Israel at peace
when Solomon was at peace with God,
but Israel was rich.
Solomon had no financial problems.
The Bible says that the silver
was as common as the stones.
But when Solomon started
drawing away from Jehovah,
Jehovah withdrew his blessing.
So that prosperity didn’t last
even during Solomon’s reign.
Insight  tells us
that there was a drain on Israel’s economy.
Solomon was still spending money
as if it were going out of style,
but he didn’t have the income
that he once had.
And so, even materially, Israel suffered.
And Rehoboam did not inherit
the wealth from Solomon
that Solomon had
had at the peak of his reign.
Now, as our comment points out,
for much of his reign,
Solomon did a lot of good things.
But is it possible
that right from the beginning,
as involved as Solomon
was in theocratic projects,
there was a little red flag
that something wasn’t quite right?
It’s possible.
Now, as our comment points out,
when Solomon became king,
he was a young man,
but he was a young married man.
In fact, when he became king,
Solomon had probably been married
for a couple of years already.
He had a little boy.
He was a daddy.
He had a little boy—one-year-old Rehoboam.
But who was his wife
—probably his first wife?
She was an Ammonitess.
Ammonitess—what do we remember
about “Ammonitess”?
Oh, yes, Deuteronomy chapter 23
and verse 3.
Now, remember, when Solomon gets married,
King David is still alive.
David is probably at the wedding.
Now, here’s what Deuteronomy 23:3 says:
“No Ammonite
“or Moabite may come
into the congregation of Jehovah.
“Even to the tenth generation,
“none of their descendants
may ever come
into the congregation of Jehovah.”
What part of “never”
did Solomon not understand?
And so could that mean
that even before he became king,
Solomon had a casual view
of Jehovah’s laws on marriage?
It’s possible.
Well, why do we say “possible”?
Well, without being dogmatic,
Insight  says that there may
have been exceptions for foreign women
like Ruth the Moabitess.
But Insight  also says
that Solomon’s Ammonite wife
possibly contributed to his apostasy.
In any event, why was the first wife
a foreign woman and an Ammonitess to boot?
Now, if Solomon
had married a nice Jewish girl
(just one)
and ‘rejoiced with the wife of his youth,’
don’t you think that the history of Israel
would have been much different?
I think it would have been.
Well, let’s take a moment to think
about the women Solomon did marry
—pagan women.
Now, you may have relatives
who are not in the truth;
you love your relatives,
and you go visit from time to time.
But how long is it before you
run out of things to talk about?
Because we just don’t have
the most important thing in common—the truth.
So we have to ask:
Why was Solomon so comfortable
with these pagan women?
What did he talk about?
Well, you can be sure he wasn’t studying
The Watchtower  with them.
But what was he doing?
What was the attraction
to these foreign women?
Was it their humility?
their modest dress?
their “chaste conduct”?
their “quiet and mild spirit”?
Or was it mainly physical?
Let’s be blunt.
Solomon was attracted
to the wrong kind of woman.
And there may have been early warning signs.
Speaking of “red flags,”
when Solomon began marrying many women,
did a prophet or a priest ever approach him
and give him some counsel?
Did they ever read Deuteronomy 17:17,
which applied directly to the king?
Deuteronomy 17:17
—it says about the king:
“Neither should he take
many wives for himself,
so that his heart may not go astray.”
Well, if he did receive that counsel,
he certainly didn’t apply it.
And if he didn’t receive that counsel,
we wonder, ‘Why not?’
Well, what’s the application?
Today, we may be very busy
in Jehovah’s organization,
but we have to be alert to any red flags
that despite outward appearances,
all is not well with us.
A single brother is a regular publisher.
He’s a regular meeting attender.
But on his nights off,
he likes to go to nightclubs,
and he’s comfortable in that atmosphere.
He isn’t shy about striking up conversations
with worldly people,
and he loves to dance.
Well, there are no sisters there,
so he dances with worldly women.
What’s the attraction?
He is busy in the congregation,
but there’s something there
that isn’t quite right.
A young pioneer brother loves to flirt.
Several young sisters think
he’s interested only in them.
The attention makes them feel special.
A ministerial servant
spends a lot of time
talking to a married woman.
When he was asked about it,
he justifies it and says: “We’re just friends.
We’re just talking.”
Famous last words.
A fine young sister is offended
when an older sister approaches her
and points out that her skirts and jeans
are too tight, too revealing.
Well, all of these are red flags.
We need to examine ourselves
from time to time to see whether,
no matter how many privileges we have,
something isn’t quite right.
When it comes to choosing a mate,
Solomon’s example can be instructive to us.
Now, what qualities
do we value in a marriage mate
—spiritual qualities?
Or is it merely the physical
and we hope that the spiritual
will catch up later?
A younger sister is getting acquainted
with a young brother.
He is really good looking
and has a great personality
and gets along with everybody.
But how is he doing spiritually?
Does he have a good schedule
for theocratic activities, and does he stick to it?
For example: If you mention an article
in a recent magazine,
does he often say,
“I must have missed that one”?
If that’s what happens, it’s a bad sign.
Does he make spiritual activities
a priority in his life?
If he doesn’t do that while he is single,
what makes you think that he’s going
to do it after you get married?
Will you change him, or will he change you?
As our comment reminds us,
Solomon enjoyed many privileges.
But he apparently felt that some of God’s laws
just didn’t apply to him.
Why not?
Well, we don’t know.
Could it be what Solomon
said in Ecclesiastes:
‘The king does whatever he wants’?
Maybe so.
Solomon multiplied horses
and acquired many wives for himself.
So, what’s the lesson for us?
No matter how long we’ve been in the truth,
no matter how many privileges we have,
no matter how much Jehovah has used us,
we can’t afford to let down our guard.
We must guard our heart,
and we mustn’t ignore any red flags
that might indicate that all is not well.
Theocratic conventions
are a spiritual highlight of every year.
They play an important role
in fostering unity
and love among Jehovah’s people.
In this episode of Our History in Motion,
let’s explore how conventions
have become an essential part
of modern-day worship.
Good morning, brothers and sisters!
How delightful it is to be gathered together
for this spiritual occasion!
Jehovah’s Witnesses
love gathering at conventions
to learn, worship, and sing together.
But large conventions like these,
with tens of thousands meeting together,
weren’t always a part
of our modern-day worship.
How did they get started?
Let’s find out in this episode
of Our History in Motion.
The very first large assembly
of Jehovah’s people
was actually held thousands of years ago
when the Israelites gathered
with Moses at Mount Sinai
for spiritual instruction.
After that, the Israelites
attended three festivals each year.
And just like today’s conventions,
those gatherings brought people together
from different tribes
to praise Him as one big family.
In modern times,
our first conventions
were held in the late 1880’s.
But they weren’t exactly
what we’d think of as conventions today.
With just a few hundred in attendance,
they were really just big meetings
that brought the Bible Students together
to commemorate the Lord’s Evening Meal.
And they were all held
in Allegheny, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.
But that changed in 1893
with the opening of the Chicago World’s Fair.
The fair drew millions of people.
And with the railroads offering
discounted rates to Chicago,
the Bible Students saw it
as a perfect opportunity
to invite the brothers and sisters
for a five-day convention.
About 360 attended
—a small crowd by today’s standards.
But early conventions like this one
helped the Bible Students see
just how upbuilding it was
to meet with fellow believers
from other areas.
Eventually,
conventions became an annual event.
Some were held outdoors or in a tent,
like the 1908 convention at Put-in-Bay,
a summer resort on Lake Erie, Ohio.
This convention was ten days long!
And it was the largest up to that time,
with an estimated 3,500 or more
in attendance.
It was a chance for brothers and sisters,
young and old,
to be spiritually refreshed,
spend time together,
laugh together, eat together,
and build true bonds of friendship and love.
The world then suffered
the devastating effects of World War I
and the deadly 1918 influenza pandemic
that had taken an estimated 50 million lives.
But that did not stop God’s people.
Our bonds of love became even more evident
in 1919 at Cedar Point, Ohio.
This was the first major convention held
after Brother Rutherford and his associates
had been released from prison.
Thrilled to finally gather together safely,
the Bible Students
just kept coming and coming
until the entire program
had to be moved outdoors,
with some 7,000 in attendance.
Just three years later, in 1922,
Cedar Point was the location
of an even more exciting convention,
with an average daily attendance
of about 10,000.
It energized God’s people
to go on preaching with renewed vigor.
Many conventions in the years that followed
helped unite God’s people
in even more powerful ways,
like the unforgettable one
held in Columbus, Ohio, in 1931.
Imagine stepping into the Coliseum
at the Fair Grounds,
there are 15,000 in attendance,
and the place is packed.
Your program has two large letters
printed on the front:
JW.
For the first two days of the convention,
everyone is trying to guess
what those letters mean.
Just Watch?
Just Wait?
Finally, Brother Rutherford steps on stage.
Near the end of his talk,
he presents a resolution
that climaxes with the words:
“We desire to be known as
and called by the name, to wit,
Jehovah’s witnesses.”
In the 1940’s,
World War II had left many countries
devastated and divided,
but Jehovah’s Witnesses
were growing in number and in unity.
In 1946,
they gathered in Cleveland, Ohio,
for the “Glad Nations” Theocratic Assembly,
and the name
couldn’t have been more appropriate.
It was a true international convention
with 55,000 delegates
from 33 different nations.
Some even camped
in tents and trailers to be there.
Tent cities were a common sight
during big conventions of this era.
With our spiritual family continuing to grow,
conventions during the 1950’s
were held around the world
even in places where resources were limited.
A landmark example
of just how international
conventions had become
was the incredible
1958 Divine Will International Assembly
in New York City,
which was attended
by more than a quarter of a million people
from 123 lands.
This was the largest international convention
ever held in one city,
filling Yankee Stadium
and, just four blocks away, the Polo Grounds.
The greatest assembly
of true Christians ever held
is opening this day.
We are certain that Jehovah is with us
and that we are here by divine will.
But what unified God’s people
at conventions like this one
wasn’t simply gathering together
in large numbers.
It was the spiritual content:
riveting talks,
practical symposiums, new releases
and, starting in the 1960’s,
Bible dramas on stage in full costume.
Those spiritual gifts
along with the joy of meeting new friends
and uniting with old ones
have made assembling together
a true blessing.
But it hasn’t always been easy.
In the country of Georgia,
where Witnesses had faced severe opposition,
plans were set to hold
the 2006 “Deliverance at Hand!”
District Convention
in the Tbilisi Philharmonic concert hall.
But the hall management canceled the contract
just one week before the convention!
With just days before the opening session,
an army of determined brothers and sisters
turned two plots of farmland
into a convention site
—harvesting the potatoes
planted on the property,
building a stage and benches for seating,
and installing sound equipment.
When it was time for the first session,
everything was ready
and more than 17,000 attended
either on site or by telephone tie-in.
Not only did the convention
come off without a hitch
but the attendees were overwhelmed
with another unexpected blessing
—the New World Translation  in Georgian—
unifying them even further
with their brothers and sisters
around the world.
In modern times like these,
special and international conventions
have been held in far-flung places
around the world.
And when it was impossible to meet in person,
we’ve even met online!
From Poland to Korea,
from Australia to South Africa,
conventions were, and still are,
joyful spiritual occasions
for all of God’s people.
They motivate and encourage us,
unite us as brothers and sisters
and, most important,
draw us closer to Jehovah.
When we gather as a united spiritual family,
it’s a shout of praise to Jehovah.
It’s also powerful evidence
that we are a loving brotherhood.
Of course,
we have to promote unity every day,
especially when someone has hurt
our feelings and our patience is tested.
But with Jehovah’s help,
we can become friends again,
which is the appealing title
of our new music video.
Before we watch it,
we want to show you a feature
that may help you benefit
more from the broadcast.
Subtitles are available
in a number of languages.
If a video has subtitles for your language,
you’ll see this icon
at the bottom of your screen.
Click the icon to turn subtitles on and off.
Now, please enjoy
the music video Friends Again.
For much too long, I’ve held it in.
It weighs me down and clouds my sight.
This grudge I’ve held since I was hurt,
I’ve held it close.
That’s just not right.
That’s never right.
But now it’s time to find a way,
To find a way to let it go,
To just forgive and make amends,
Be close again, be friends again.
Whatever hurt I might forgive,
Whatever wrong that I let go,
I realize they don’t compare
With God’s free gift—the love he shows.
What love he shows!
But now it’s time to find a way,
To find a way to let it go,
To just forgive and make amends,
Be close again, be friends again.
I’ll make the first move.
I won’t delay, not one more day.
It’s time for both of us
To be OK.
We’ll be OK.
Jehovah loves the two of us.
He wants to see our friendship grow.
When I forgive, my heart is light.
So I’ll forgive and let it go.
Just let it go.
But now it’s time to find a way,
To find a way to let it go,
To just forgive and make amends,
Be close again, be friends again,
Be close again, be friends again.
I’ll make the first move.
Our program has focused
on the beautiful quality of patience.
We learned to be patient
with the way others handle situations.
We saw how Jehovah is patient with us
as we free ourselves from destructive habits
and how our patience and love
reassures others too.
For this month’s video postcard,
we travel to Guatemala in Central America.
What aspects
of Jehovah’s creation do you enjoy?
jungles?
beaches?
mountains? rain forests?
Guatemala has them all!
It even has volcanoes
—lots of volcanoes!
Southern Guatemala has a string of 27.
The first missionaries arrived in 1945.
By 1958,
there were more than 700 Witnesses
in three circuits.
Difficulties arose
in the 1980’s when the government
organized armed civilians
to patrol communities.
Some of our brothers
were threatened with death
if they did not join the civil patrols.
But they stood firm!
Today, about 40,000 publishers
serve in more than 850 congregations.
Their preaching methods
are as diverse as the geography.
Guatemala’s official language is Spanish,
but more than 20 indigenous languages
are also spoken there,
including Mam.
More than 500 publishers in 20 congregations
share the good news in the Mam language.
These brothers and sisters
are among the 49 publishers
in the Ostuncalco Mam Congregation
in Quetzaltenango.
They send you their love and greetings.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.